---
layout: post
title: "Books I read in 2018"
date: 2018-12-24 14:07
comments: true
published: true
categories: Reading, Books
---

### General/Personal Development
1. **The art of living (Thich nhat hanh)**: This is the best Thich nhat hanh I've read, composing his philosophy on living an examined life into day to day practices.
3. **Thinking in systems, a primer (Donella Meadows)**: Really, really smart author, systems thinking should be a required course in college.
4. **Ain’t I a Woman: Black Women and Feminism (Bell Hooks)**: Challenges a lot of assumptions, covering black woman's involvement with race identity and feminism.
5. **When: The Scientific Secrets of Perfect Timing (Daniel Pink)**
6. **The Essential Rumi (Jalal Al-Din Rumi)**: Lately I have started admiring how much Poetry can accomplish with so few words. There is something very calming about reading Rumi.
6. **Sex at dawn (Christopher Ryan‎, Cacilda Jethá)**: An incendiary/challenging investigation into human/primate sexuality, sweeping across history to construct the narrative, much like Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari.
7. **Deep work (Cal Newport)**: So good, anyone doing knowledge/creative work would be benefited by this classic.
8. **The life changing Manga of Tidying Up (Marie Kondo)**: I have been leaning towards minimalism, and Marie Kondo offers very actionable steps to cleaning up, and why doing this is related to the life we want to have.
9. **Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience (Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi)**: There is strong evidence at this point that time spent in flow state, (an state of effortless concentration on a single task), can be correlated to contentment/happiness. I really liked the first part of the book but thought it could be much shorter.
10. **Daring Greatly: How the Courage to Be Vulnerable Transforms the Way We Live, Love, Parent, and Lead (Brene Brown)**
11. **So good they can’t ignore you (Cal Newport)**: Much like deep work, essential reading for those looking to improve their craft.
12. **How to change your mind (Michael Pollan)**: Eye-opening, challenging look at the resurgence of Psychedelics in mental health research.
13. **A life in parts (Bryan Cranston)**

<!-- more -->

### Tech
1. **Radical Candor (Kim Scott)**
2. **The Phoenix Project: A Novel about IT, DevOps, and Helping Your Business Win (Gene Kim)** A curiously engaging fiction on DevOps and executive level politics in a large tech company.
3. **Designing data intensive applications (Martin Kleppmann)**: One I will be re-reading many times.
4. **The master algorithm (Pedro Domingos)**: An inspiring call to action and possibility of general artificial intelligence.
5. **The manager’s path (Camille Fournier)**
6. **The Passionate Programmer: Creating a Remarkable Career in Software Development (Chad Fowler)**

### Running
1. **Running Rewired: Reinvent Your Run for Stability, Strength, and Speed (Jay Dicharry)**
2. **Endure: Mind, Body, and the Curiously Elastic Limits of Human Performance (Alex Hutchinson)**
2. **North (Scott Jurek)**: Loved how personal this story was both for Jurek and his wife Jenny, alternating their narratives
3. **Again to Carthage (John L Parker)**: Amazing in certain parts, especially near the end where Cassidy runs Olympic trials, but too long and dragging for most of it.
4. **Running with the mind of meditation (Sakyong Mipham)**: What does a lifelong meditator who also ran the Boston marathon has to say about the sport?

*In no particular order, mostly read while being on the NYC subway!*